docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/parameters.adoc, before:

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `rook_ceph`.

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `syn-rook-ceph-operator`

The namespace in which the Rook Ceph operator and the CSI drivers are deployed

== `ceph_cluster`

[horizontal]
type:: dict

The configuration of the Ceph cluster to deploy.
See the following sections for individual parameters nested under this key.

=== `name`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `cluster`

The name of the Ceph cluster object.
Also used as part of the storageclass and volumesnapshotclass names.

=== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `syn-rook-ceph-${rook_ceph:ceph_cluster:name}`

The namespace in which the Ceph cluster is deployed.

By default, the component deploys the Ceph cluster in a different namespace than the operator and the CSI drivers.
However, the component also supports deploying the operator, CSI drivers and Ceph cluster in the same namespace.

=== `node_count`

[horizontal]
type:: integer
default:: `3`

The number of storage nodes (disks really) that the Ceph cluster should expect.

The operator will deploy this many Ceph OSDs.

=== `block_storage_class`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `localblock`

The storage class to use for the block storage volumes backing the Ceph cluster.
The storage class **must** support `volumeMode=Block`.


=== `tune_fast_device_class`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `false`

This parameter can be set to `true` to tune the Ceph cluster OSD parameters for SSDs (or better).

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-cluster-crd.html#storage-class-device-sets[the Rook.io Ceph cluster CRD documentation] for a more detailed explanation.

=== `config_override`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
osd:
  bluefs_buffered_io: false
----

Additional Ceph configurations which are rendered in Ini format by the component.
Each key in the dict is translated into a section in the resulting Ini file containing the key's value -- which is expected to be a dict -- as settings.

The default value is translated into the following Ini file:

[source,ini]
----
[osd]
bluefs_buffered_io = false
----

The resulting Ini file is written to the ConfigMap `rook-config-override` in the Ceph cluster namespace.

=== `rbd_enabled`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `true`

This parameter controls whether the RBD CSI driver and any configured `CephBlockPool` resources and associated storage- and volumesnapshotclasses are provisioned.

The `CephBlockPool` resources are defined and configured in parameter <<_xrf_TODO,`storage_pools.rbd`>>.


=== `cephfs_enabled`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `false`

This parameter controls whether the CephFS CSI driver and any configured `CephFilesystem` resources and associated storage- and volumesnapshotclasses are provisioned.

The `CephFilesystem` resources are defined and configured in parameter <<_xrf_TODO,`storage_pools.cephfs`>>.

=== `storage_pools.rbd`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
keys:: Names of `CephBlockPool` resources
values:: dicts with keys `config` and `storage_class_config`

In this parameter `CephBlockPool` resources are configured.
The component creates exactly one storageclass and volumesnapshotclass per block pool.

By default the parameter holds the following configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
storagepool:
  config:
    failureDomain: host
    replicated:
      size: 3
      requireSafeReplicaSize: true
  storage_class_config:
    parameters:
      csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype: ext4
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

This configuration results in

* A `CephBlockPool` named `storagepool` which is configured with 3 replicas distributed on different hosts
* A storageclass which creates PVs on this block pool, uses the `ext4` filesystem and supports volume expansion
* A volumesnapshotclass associated with the storageclass

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-pool-crd.html[the Rook.io `CephBlockPool` CRD documentation] for all possible configurations in key `config`.

The values in key `storage_class_config` are merged into the `StorageClass` resource.

=== `storage_pools.cephfs`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
keys:: Names of `CephFilesystem` resources
values:: dicts with keys `data_pools`, `config` and `storage_class_config`

In this parameter `CephFilesystem` resources are configured.
The component creates exactly one storageclass and volumesnapshotclass per CephFS.

By default the parameter holds the following configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
fspool:
  data_pools:
    pool0:
      failureDomain: host
      replicated:
        size: 3
        requireSafeReplicaSize: true
      parameters:
        compression_mode: none
  config:
    metadataPool:
      replicated:
        size: 3
        requireSafeReplicaSize: true
    parameters:
      compression_mode: none
    # dataPools rendered from data_pools in Jsonnet
    preserveFilesystemOnDelete: true
    metadataServer:
      activeCount: 1
      activeStandby: true
      # metadata server placement done in Jsonnet but can be
      # extended here
    mirroring:
      enabled: false
  storage_class_config:
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

This configuration creates one `CephFilesystem` resource named `fspool`.
This CephFS instance is configured to have 3 replicas both for the metadata pool and its single data pool.

The key `data_pools` is provided to avoid having to manage a list of data pools directly in the hierarchy.
The values of each key in `data_pools` are placed in the resulting CephFS resource's field `.spec.dataPools`

The contents of key `config` are used as the base value of the resulting resource's `.spec` field.
Note that data pools given in `config` in the hierarchy will be overwritten by the pools configured in `data_pools`.

The values in key `storage_class_config` are merged into the `StorageClass` resource which is for the CephFS instance.

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-filesystem-crd.html[the Rook.io `CephFilesystem` CRD documentation] for all possible configurations in key `config`.


== `node_selector`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
node-role.kubernetes.io/storage: ''
----


The node selector (if applicable) for all the resources managed by the component.

== `tolerations`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
- key: storagenode
  operator: Exists
----

The tolerations (if applicable) for all the resources managed by the component.

The component assumes that nodes on which the deployments should be scheduled may be tainted with `storagenode=True:NoSchedule`.

== `images`
[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

This parameter allows selecting the Docker images to use for Rook.io, Ceph, and Ceph-CSI.
Each image is specified using keys `registry`, `image` and `tag`.
This structure allows easily injecting a registry mirror, if required.

== `charts`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

This parameter allows selecting the Helm chart version for the `rook-ceph` operator.

== `operator_helm_values`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

The Helm values to use when rendering the rook-ceph operator Helm chart.

A few Helm values are configured based on other component parameters by default:

* The data in parameter `images` is used to set the `image.repository`, `image.tag`, and `csi.cephcsi.image` Helm values
* The value of `node_selector` is used to set Helm value `nodeSelector`
* The value of `tolerations` is used to set Helm value `tolerations`

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/helm-operator.html#configuration[the Rook.io docs] for a full list of Helm values.

== `toolbox`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
enabled: true
image: ${rook_ceph:images:rook}
----

The configuration for the Rook-Ceph toolbox deployment.
This deployment provides an in-cluster shell to observe and administrate the Ceph cluster.

== `cephClusterSpec`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

The default configuration for the `CephCluster` resource.
The value of this parameter is used as field `.spec` of the resulting resource.

Selected configurations of the Ceph cluster are inherited from other component parameters.
If you overwrite those configurations in this parameter, the values provided in the "source" parameters won't have an effect.

=== Inherited configurations

* `cephVersion.image` is constructed from the data in parameter <<_images,`images`>>.
* `placement.all.nodeAffinity` is built from parameter <<_node_selector,`node_selector`>>.
The component constructs the following value for the configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
  nodeSelectorTerms:
    - matchExpressions: <1>
        - key: NODE_SELECTOR_KEY
          operator: Exists
        ...
----
<1> The component creates an entry in `matchExpressions` with `key` equal to the node selector key and `operator=Exists` for each key in parameter <<_node_selector,`node_selector`>>.

* `placement.all.tolerations` is set to the value of parameter <<_tolerations,`tolerations`>>.
* The component creates as single entry for `storage.storageClassDeviceSets` based on values given in parameter <<_ceph_cluster,`ceph_cluster`>>.
Users are encouraged to use the parameter <<_ceph_cluster,`ceph_cluster`>> to configure the Ceph cluster's backing storage.
+
The component expects that the provided storageclass for the backing storage supports `volumeMode=Block`.

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-cluster-crd.html#settings[the Rook.io `CephCluster` documentation] for a full list of configuration parameters.

== Example configurations

=== Configure and tune Ceph's backing storage

To configure the component for an infrastructure which provides backing storage as storageclass `localblock-storage` and uses SSDs to provide local volumes the following config can be provided.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    ceph_cluster:
      block_storage_class: localblock-storage
      tune_fast_device_class: true
----

=== Configure target size of RBD block pool

To tell the Ceph cluster that the default RBD block pool, which is named `storagepool`, is expected to take up 80% of the Ceph cluster's capacity, the following config can be provided.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    ceph_cluster:
      storage_pools:
        rbd:
          storagepool:
            config:
              parameters:
                target_size_ratio: "0.8"
----

=== Configure the component for OCP4

The component automatically configures some parameters for OpenShift 4.
However, the following configurations must be provided through the hierarchy.
The hierarchy may set these parameters in the OpenShift 4 distribution class.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    operator_helm_values:
      hostpathRequiresPrivileged: true <1>
    cephClusterSpec:
      disruptionManagement:
        manageMachineDisruptionBudgets: true <2>
----
<1> The operator needs to be informed that deployments which use `hostPath` volume mounts need to run with `privileged` security context.
This setting is required on any cluster which uses SELinux on the nodes.
<2> Tell the operator to create and manage MachineDisruptionBudgets.

Commit message:

Add missing config parameter `block_volume_size`
This provides a convenient way to select OSD disk size when OSD PVs are
provisioned dynamically.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/parameters.adoc, after:

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `rook_ceph`.

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `syn-rook-ceph-operator`

The namespace in which the Rook Ceph operator and the CSI drivers are deployed

== `ceph_cluster`

[horizontal]
type:: dict

The configuration of the Ceph cluster to deploy.
See the following sections for individual parameters nested under this key.

=== `name`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `cluster`

The name of the Ceph cluster object.
Also used as part of the storageclass and volumesnapshotclass names.

=== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `syn-rook-ceph-${rook_ceph:ceph_cluster:name}`

The namespace in which the Ceph cluster is deployed.

By default, the component deploys the Ceph cluster in a different namespace than the operator and the CSI drivers.
However, the component also supports deploying the operator, CSI drivers and Ceph cluster in the same namespace.

=== `node_count`

[horizontal]
type:: integer
default:: `3`

The number of storage nodes (disks really) that the Ceph cluster should expect.

The operator will deploy this many Ceph OSDs.

=== `block_storage_class`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `localblock`

The storage class to use for the block storage volumes backing the Ceph cluster.
The storage class **must** support `volumeMode=Block`.


=== `block_volume_size`

[horizontal]
type:: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/#Quantity[K8s Quantity]
default:: `1`

By default, the component expects that pre-provisioned block storage volumes are used.
If you deploy the component on a cluster which dynamically provisions volumes for the storage class configured in `ceph_cluster.block_storage_class`, set this value to the desired size of the disk for a single node of your Ceph cluster.

=== `tune_fast_device_class`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `false`

This parameter can be set to `true` to tune the Ceph cluster OSD parameters for SSDs (or better).

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-cluster-crd.html#storage-class-device-sets[the Rook.io Ceph cluster CRD documentation] for a more detailed explanation.

=== `config_override`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
osd:
  bluefs_buffered_io: false
----

Additional Ceph configurations which are rendered in Ini format by the component.
Each key in the dict is translated into a section in the resulting Ini file containing the key's value -- which is expected to be a dict -- as settings.

The default value is translated into the following Ini file:

[source,ini]
----
[osd]
bluefs_buffered_io = false
----

The resulting Ini file is written to the ConfigMap `rook-config-override` in the Ceph cluster namespace.

=== `rbd_enabled`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `true`

This parameter controls whether the RBD CSI driver and any configured `CephBlockPool` resources and associated storage- and volumesnapshotclasses are provisioned.

The `CephBlockPool` resources are defined and configured in parameter <<_xrf_TODO,`storage_pools.rbd`>>.


=== `cephfs_enabled`

[horizontal]
type:: boolean
default:: `false`

This parameter controls whether the CephFS CSI driver and any configured `CephFilesystem` resources and associated storage- and volumesnapshotclasses are provisioned.

The `CephFilesystem` resources are defined and configured in parameter <<_xrf_TODO,`storage_pools.cephfs`>>.

=== `storage_pools.rbd`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
keys:: Names of `CephBlockPool` resources
values:: dicts with keys `config` and `storage_class_config`

In this parameter `CephBlockPool` resources are configured.
The component creates exactly one storageclass and volumesnapshotclass per block pool.

By default the parameter holds the following configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
storagepool:
  config:
    failureDomain: host
    replicated:
      size: 3
      requireSafeReplicaSize: true
  storage_class_config:
    parameters:
      csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype: ext4
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

This configuration results in

* A `CephBlockPool` named `storagepool` which is configured with 3 replicas distributed on different hosts
* A storageclass which creates PVs on this block pool, uses the `ext4` filesystem and supports volume expansion
* A volumesnapshotclass associated with the storageclass

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-pool-crd.html[the Rook.io `CephBlockPool` CRD documentation] for all possible configurations in key `config`.

The values in key `storage_class_config` are merged into the `StorageClass` resource.

=== `storage_pools.cephfs`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
keys:: Names of `CephFilesystem` resources
values:: dicts with keys `data_pools`, `config` and `storage_class_config`

In this parameter `CephFilesystem` resources are configured.
The component creates exactly one storageclass and volumesnapshotclass per CephFS.

By default the parameter holds the following configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
fspool:
  data_pools:
    pool0:
      failureDomain: host
      replicated:
        size: 3
        requireSafeReplicaSize: true
      parameters:
        compression_mode: none
  config:
    metadataPool:
      replicated:
        size: 3
        requireSafeReplicaSize: true
    parameters:
      compression_mode: none
    # dataPools rendered from data_pools in Jsonnet
    preserveFilesystemOnDelete: true
    metadataServer:
      activeCount: 1
      activeStandby: true
      # metadata server placement done in Jsonnet but can be
      # extended here
    mirroring:
      enabled: false
  storage_class_config:
    allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

This configuration creates one `CephFilesystem` resource named `fspool`.
This CephFS instance is configured to have 3 replicas both for the metadata pool and its single data pool.

The key `data_pools` is provided to avoid having to manage a list of data pools directly in the hierarchy.
The values of each key in `data_pools` are placed in the resulting CephFS resource's field `.spec.dataPools`

The contents of key `config` are used as the base value of the resulting resource's `.spec` field.
Note that data pools given in `config` in the hierarchy will be overwritten by the pools configured in `data_pools`.

The values in key `storage_class_config` are merged into the `StorageClass` resource which is for the CephFS instance.

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-filesystem-crd.html[the Rook.io `CephFilesystem` CRD documentation] for all possible configurations in key `config`.


== `node_selector`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
node-role.kubernetes.io/storage: ''
----


The node selector (if applicable) for all the resources managed by the component.

== `tolerations`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
- key: storagenode
  operator: Exists
----

The tolerations (if applicable) for all the resources managed by the component.

The component assumes that nodes on which the deployments should be scheduled may be tainted with `storagenode=True:NoSchedule`.

== `images`
[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

This parameter allows selecting the Docker images to use for Rook.io, Ceph, and Ceph-CSI.
Each image is specified using keys `registry`, `image` and `tag`.
This structure allows easily injecting a registry mirror, if required.

== `charts`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

This parameter allows selecting the Helm chart version for the `rook-ceph` operator.

== `operator_helm_values`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

The Helm values to use when rendering the rook-ceph operator Helm chart.

A few Helm values are configured based on other component parameters by default:

* The data in parameter `images` is used to set the `image.repository`, `image.tag`, and `csi.cephcsi.image` Helm values
* The value of `node_selector` is used to set Helm value `nodeSelector`
* The value of `tolerations` is used to set Helm value `tolerations`

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/helm-operator.html#configuration[the Rook.io docs] for a full list of Helm values.

== `toolbox`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
enabled: true
image: ${rook_ceph:images:rook}
----

The configuration for the Rook-Ceph toolbox deployment.
This deployment provides an in-cluster shell to observe and administrate the Ceph cluster.

== `cephClusterSpec`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: See https://github.com/projectsyn/component-rook-ceph/blob/master/class/defaults.yml[`class/defaults.yml` on Github]

The default configuration for the `CephCluster` resource.
The value of this parameter is used as field `.spec` of the resulting resource.

Selected configurations of the Ceph cluster are inherited from other component parameters.
If you overwrite those configurations in this parameter, the values provided in the "source" parameters won't have an effect.

=== Inherited configurations

* `cephVersion.image` is constructed from the data in parameter <<_images,`images`>>.
* `placement.all.nodeAffinity` is built from parameter <<_node_selector,`node_selector`>>.
The component constructs the following value for the configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
  nodeSelectorTerms:
    - matchExpressions: <1>
        - key: NODE_SELECTOR_KEY
          operator: Exists
        ...
----
<1> The component creates an entry in `matchExpressions` with `key` equal to the node selector key and `operator=Exists` for each key in parameter <<_node_selector,`node_selector`>>.

* `placement.all.tolerations` is set to the value of parameter <<_tolerations,`tolerations`>>.
* The component creates as single entry for `storage.storageClassDeviceSets` based on values given in parameter <<_ceph_cluster,`ceph_cluster`>>.
Users are encouraged to use the parameter <<_ceph_cluster,`ceph_cluster`>> to configure the Ceph cluster's backing storage.
+
The component expects that the provided storageclass for the backing storage supports `volumeMode=Block`.

See https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.6/ceph-cluster-crd.html#settings[the Rook.io `CephCluster` documentation] for a full list of configuration parameters.

== Example configurations

=== Configure and tune Ceph's backing storage

To configure the component for an infrastructure which provides backing storage as storageclass `localblock-storage` and uses SSDs to provide local volumes the following config can be provided.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    ceph_cluster:
      block_storage_class: localblock-storage
      tune_fast_device_class: true
----

=== Configure target size of RBD block pool

To tell the Ceph cluster that the default RBD block pool, which is named `storagepool`, is expected to take up 80% of the Ceph cluster's capacity, the following config can be provided.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    ceph_cluster:
      storage_pools:
        rbd:
          storagepool:
            config:
              parameters:
                target_size_ratio: "0.8"
----

=== Configure the component for OCP4

The component automatically configures some parameters for OpenShift 4.
However, the following configurations must be provided through the hierarchy.
The hierarchy may set these parameters in the OpenShift 4 distribution class.

[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  rook_ceph:
    operator_helm_values:
      hostpathRequiresPrivileged: true <1>
    cephClusterSpec:
      disruptionManagement:
        manageMachineDisruptionBudgets: true <2>
----
<1> The operator needs to be informed that deployments which use `hostPath` volume mounts need to run with `privileged` security context.
This setting is required on any cluster which uses SELinux on the nodes.
<2> Tell the operator to create and manage MachineDisruptionBudgets.
