docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/upgrade-v7-v8.adoc, before:

= Upgrading to Component Version v8.0.0

The component was updated to use `HostNetwork` for the Ceph-CSI driver pods and to disable holder pods.

Using `HostNetwork` for the Ceph-CSI driver pods avoids running into issues with existing mounts after the Ceph-CSI driver pods are restarted.
Holder pods will be deprecated in one of the next Rook-Ceph releases.

This how-to is intended for users which are upgrading an existing Rook-Ceph setup to component version v8.0.0 from a previous component version.

== Prerequisites

* `cluster-admin` access to the cluster
* `kubectl`
* `jq`

== Steps

. Upgrade the component to version v8.0.0 and wait for the upgrade to finish.
Ensure the ArgoCD application is synced, in a healthy state, and the OSDs were restarted.

. Delete the Ceph-CSI driver configmap:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete cm -n syn-rook-ceph-operator rook-ceph-csi-config
----

. Restart the Rook-Ceph operator:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete pod -n syn-rook-ceph-operator -l app=rook-ceph-operator
----

. Delete the Ceph-CSI driver pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin -n syn-rook-ceph-operator delete pod -l app=csi-cephfsplugin
kubectl --as=cluster-admin -n syn-rook-ceph-operator delete pod -l app=csi-rbdplugin
----

. Delete holder pods

[WARNING]
====
Running pods will still use the holder pods.
You should evict the pods by draining each node to remount the volumes.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin drain <node-name> --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data
----
====

[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete -n syn-rook-ceph-operator daemonsets.apps csi-cephfsplugin-holder-cluster
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete -n syn-rook-ceph-operator daemonsets.apps csi-rbdplugin-holder-cluster
----

== Sources

* https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/12254[rook/rook#12254 Unable to revert back to host network from multus]
* https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.14/CRDs/Cluster/network-providers/#disabling-holder-pods[Holder Pod Deprecation]

Commit message:

Make draining nodes an explicit step
Co-authored-by: Simon Gerber <simon.gerber@vshn.ch>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/upgrade-v7-v8.adoc, after:

= Upgrading to Component Version v8.0.0

The component was updated to use `HostNetwork` for the Ceph-CSI driver pods and to disable holder pods.

Using `HostNetwork` for the Ceph-CSI driver pods avoids running into issues with existing mounts after the Ceph-CSI driver pods are restarted.
Holder pods will be deprecated in one of the next Rook-Ceph releases.

This how-to is intended for users which are upgrading an existing Rook-Ceph setup to component version v8.0.0 from a previous component version.

== Prerequisites

* `cluster-admin` access to the cluster
* `kubectl`
* `jq`

== Steps

. Upgrade the component to version v8.0.0 and wait for the upgrade to finish.
Ensure the ArgoCD application is synced, in a healthy state, and the OSDs were restarted.

. Delete the Ceph-CSI driver configmap:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete cm -n syn-rook-ceph-operator rook-ceph-csi-config
----

. Restart the Rook-Ceph operator:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete pod -n syn-rook-ceph-operator -l app=rook-ceph-operator
----

. Delete the Ceph-CSI driver pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin -n syn-rook-ceph-operator delete pod -l app=csi-cephfsplugin
kubectl --as=cluster-admin -n syn-rook-ceph-operator delete pod -l app=csi-rbdplugin
----

. Drain each node in the cluster to ensure no volume mounts still rely on the holder pods
+
Refer to the relevant documentation for your Kubernetes distribution for commands to safely drain each node in your cluster.
See the https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/how-tos/force-reboot.html[APPUiO Managed OpenShift 4 documentation] for a possible approach to take for draining all nodes of an OpenShift 4 cluster.

. Delete holder pods
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure that all pods that mount volumes have been restarted before deleting the holder daemonsets.
====
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete -n syn-rook-ceph-operator daemonsets.apps csi-cephfsplugin-holder-cluster
kubectl --as=cluster-admin delete -n syn-rook-ceph-operator daemonsets.apps csi-rbdplugin-holder-cluster
----

== Sources

* https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/12254[rook/rook#12254 Unable to revert back to host network from multus]
* https://rook.io/docs/rook/v1.14/CRDs/Cluster/network-providers/#disabling-holder-pods[Holder Pod Deprecation]
